README.rst, before:

=================
Python DM3 Reader
=================


Author:
`Pierre-Ivan Raynal <mailto:raynal@univ-tours.fr>`_
(`http://microscopies.med.univ-tours.fr/
<http://microscopies.med.univ-tours.fr/>`_)

Contributions by:
`Philippe Mallet-Ladeira <mailto:philippe.mallet@cemes.fr>`_

This Python module is a transposition and adaptation of the `DM3_Reader`
`ImageJ plug-in <http://rsb.info.nih.gov/ij/plugins/DM3_Reader.html>`_ by
`Greg Jefferis <mailto:jefferis@stanford.edu>`_.

It allows to extract thumbnail, image data and metadata (specimen, operator,
HV, MAG, etc.) from `GATAN DigitalMicrograph 3` files (it was initially meant
to be called by a script indexing electron microscope images in a database).
In particular, it can dump all metadata (“Tags”), pass thumbnail and image
data as PIL Images or Numpy arrays, as well as save the thumbnail view in a
PNG file.


Dependencies
============

 - Python Imaging Library
 - NumPy
 - SciPy

Optional Dependencies
---------------------

 - Matplotlib
 - IPython IDE


Usage
=====

Use in your own script would typically require lines such as::

    import dm3_lib as dm3
    import matplotlib.pyplot as plt
    # parse DM3 file
    dm3f = dm3.DM3("sample.dm3")
    # print some useful image information
    print dm3f.info
    print "pixel size = %s %s"%dm3f.pxsize
    # display image
    plt.ion()
    plt.matshow(dm3f.imagedata, vmin=dm3f.cuts[0], vmax=dm3f.cuts[1])
    plt.colorbar(shrink=.8)


Known Issues
============

This DM3 parser has only been tested on single-image files (i.e. not stacks)
and not all data types are implemented yet.

Commit message:

add reference to demo.py in README

README.rst, after:

=================
Python DM3 Reader
=================


Author:
`Pierre-Ivan Raynal <mailto:raynal@univ-tours.fr>`_
(`http://microscopies.med.univ-tours.fr/
<http://microscopies.med.univ-tours.fr/>`_)

Contributions by:
`Philippe Mallet-Ladeira <mailto:philippe.mallet@cemes.fr>`_

This Python module is a transposition and adaptation of the `DM3_Reader`
`ImageJ plug-in <http://rsb.info.nih.gov/ij/plugins/DM3_Reader.html>`_ by
`Greg Jefferis <mailto:jefferis@stanford.edu>`_.

It allows to extract thumbnail, image data and metadata (specimen, operator,
HV, MAG, etc.) from `GATAN DigitalMicrograph 3` files (it was initially meant
to be called by a script indexing electron microscope images in a database).
In particular, it can dump all metadata (“Tags”), pass thumbnail and image
data as PIL Images or Numpy arrays, as well as save the thumbnail view in a
PNG file.


Dependencies
============

 - Python Imaging Library
 - NumPy
 - SciPy

Optional Dependencies
---------------------

 - Matplotlib
 - IPython IDE


Usage
=====

Use in your own script would typically require lines such as::

    import dm3_lib as dm3
    import matplotlib.pyplot as plt
    # parse DM3 file
    dm3f = dm3.DM3("sample.dm3")
    # print some useful image information
    print dm3f.info
    print "pixel size = %s %s"%dm3f.pxsize
    # display image
    plt.ion()
    plt.matshow(dm3f.imagedata, vmin=dm3f.cuts[0], vmax=dm3f.cuts[1])
    plt.colorbar(shrink=.8)

A more detailed example is located in `site-packages/dm3_lib/demo` directory
under the name `demo.py`.

Known Issues
============

This DM3 parser has only been tested on single-image files (i.e. not stacks)
and not all data types are implemented yet.
